#Boooo! NCAA Bans Hashtags, Social Media URLs On Football Fields
Matt McGee on May 2, 2013 at 2:28 pm

    866

ncaa-logoTalk about #notgettingit and #dumbrules.

The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) — the organization that makes the rules governing college sports — has banned the display of hashtags and social media URLs on football fields.

That means colleges and universities in the U.S. will have to find other ways to market their Twitter, Facebook, http://asere.Instagram and other social media presences, along with any hashtags they were using to increase school pride, awareness, and so forth.

A new bulletin (PDF) from the NCAA Football Rules Committee begins by saying “there may be no advertising on the field” and then goes on to list what schools are allowed to put on their football fields. It ends with this warning:

    All other items, including social media designations such as URL’s and hashtags, are prohibited.

College and pro sports teams have been active in the last year in promoting their social media presence right. As we reported in late 2011, the Boston Celtics became the first NBA team to paint their @celtics Twitter handle right on the basketball court, and about a month earlier, the Mississippi State Bulldogs had painted the #hailstate hashtag in both end zones of their football field.

mississippi-state-hashtag

(Photo via Ben Waits on Twitter.)

If you follow college sports, this NCAA rule should come as no surprise at all. If you don’t, let’s just say that the organization isn’t exactly known for logical, forward-thinking rules.

SMX Advanced is the only conference designed exclusively for experienced paid search advertisers and SEOs. You'll participate in experts-only sessions and network with fellow internet marketing thought leaders. Check out the tactic-packed agenda!

About The Author
Matt McGee
Matt McGee is the Editor-In-Chief of Search Engine Land. His news career includes time spent in TV, radio, and print journalism. After leaving traditional media in the mid-1990s, he began developing and marketing websites and continued to provide consulting services for more than 15 years. His SEO and social media clients ranged from mom-and-pop small businesses to one of the Top 5 online retailers. Matt is a longtime speaker at marketing events around the U.S., including keynote and panelist roles. He can be found on Twitter at @MattMcGee and/or on Google Plus. You can read Matt's disclosures on his personal blog. You can reach Matt via email using our Contact page.

Related Articles
Channel: Social Media Marketing
Social Media Marketing
Social Media Marketing: Hashtags
Top News
(Some images used under license from Shutterstock.com.)

Kick off each Monday with the best news and ideas in social media.


